CORS-RFC1918 feedback article #3988 (#4189)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/cors-rfc1918-feedback/index.md

---
title: Feedback wanted: CORS for private networks (RFC1918)
subhead: |
  Mitigate the risks associated with unintentional exposure of devices and servers on a client’s internal network to the web at large.
description: |

>   Mitigate the risks associated with unintentional exposure of devices and servers on a client’s internal network to the web at large.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Unintentional exposure of devices and servers on a client’s internal network to the web at large makes them 
  vulnerable to malicious attacks. CORS-RFC1918 is a proposal to block requests from public networks by default 
  on the browser and require internal devices to opt-in to such requests.
```

browser and require internal devices to opt-in to requests from the public
internet.

To understand how this change impacts the web ecosystem, we are looking for feedback from developers who build servers for private networks.

## What's wrong with the status quo?

Many web servers run within a private network—wireless routers, printers,
intranet websites, enterprise services, and IoT devices are only part of them.
They might seem to be in a safer environment than the ones exposed to the public
but those servers can be abused by attackers using a web page as a proxy. For
example, malicious websites can embed a URL that, when simply viewed by the
victim (on a JavaScript-enabled browser), attempts to change the DNS server
settings on the victim's home broadband router. This type of attack is called
"[Drive-By
Pharming](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-540-77048-0_38)" and
[it happened in
2014](https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/22743/cyber-crime/soho-pharming-attack.html).
More than 300,000 vulnerable wireless routers were exploited having their DNS
settings changed and allowing attackers to redirect users to malicious servers.

## CORS-RFC1918

> To mitigate the threat of similar attacks, the web community is bringing
> [CORS-RFC1918](https://wicg.github.io/cors-rfc1918/)—[Cross Origin Resource
> Sharing (CORS)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) specialized
> for private networks defined in [RFC1918](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1918).
> 
> Browsers that implement Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) check with target
> resources whether they are okay being loaded from a different origin. This is
> accomplished either with extra headers inline describing the access or by using
> a mechanism called preflight requests, depending on the complexity. Read [Cross
> Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)](https://web.dev/cross-origin-resource-sharing/)
> to learn more.
> 
> With [CORS-RFC1918](https://wicg.github.io/cors-rfc1918/) the browser will block
> loading resources over the private network by default except ones that are
> explicitly allowed by the server using CORS and through HTTPS. The website
> making requests to those resources will need to send CORS headers and the server
> will need to explicitly state that it accepts the cross-origin request by
> responding with corresponding CORS headers. (The exact [CORS
> headers](https://wicg.github.io/cors-rfc1918/) are still under development.)
> 
> Developers of such devices or servers will be requested to do two things:
> 
> * Make sure the website making requests to a private network is served over
>   HTTPS.
> * Set up the server support for CORS-RFC1918 and respond with expected HTTP
>   headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mitigate the threat of similar attacks, the web community is bringing
[CORS-RFC1918](https://wicg.github.io/cors-rfc1918/)—[Cross Origin Resource
Sharing (CORS)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) specialized
for private networks defined in [RFC1918](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1918).

Browsers that implement CORS check with target
resources whether they are okay being loaded from a different origin. This is
accomplished either with extra headers inline describing the access or by using
a mechanism called preflight requests, depending on the complexity. Read [Cross
Origin Resource Sharing](https://web.dev/cross-origin-resource-sharing/)
to learn more.

With [CORS-RFC1918](https://wicg.github.io/cors-rfc1918/) the browser will block
loading resources over the private network by default except ones that are
explicitly allowed by the server using CORS and through HTTPS. The website
making requests to those resources will need to send CORS headers and the server
will need to explicitly state that it accepts the cross-origin request by
responding with corresponding CORS headers. (The exact [CORS
headers](https://wicg.github.io/cors-rfc1918/) are still under development.)

Developers of such devices or servers will be requested to do two things:

* Make sure the website making requests to a private network is served over
  HTTPS.
* Set up the server support for CORS-RFC1918 and respond with expected HTTP
  headers.
```

---

> title: \[Feedback wanted\] CORS for private networks (RFC1918)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Feedback wanted: CORS for private networks (RFC1918)
```

Author: This causes an issue: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/issues/4194

Author: Removing `[` and `[` sounds fair enough

Author: Looks like `:` is causing Netlify to build at this time. Changing the title...

subhead: |
  Mitigate the risks associated with unintentional exposure of devices and servers on a client’s internal network to the web at large.
description: |
  Mitigate the risks associated with unintentional exposure of devices and servers on a client’s internal network to the web at large.
authors:
  - agektmr
date: 2020-11-09
hero: hero.jpg
alt: The hands of a person playing the Chrome dino game on a game console.
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - security
---

Malicious websites making requests to devices and servers hosted on a private
network have long been a threat. Attackers may, for example, change a wireless
router's configuration to enable
[Man-in-the-Middle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack)
attacks. CORS-RFC1918 is a proposal to block such requests by default on the
browser and require internal devices to opt-in to requests from the public
internet.

> We are looking for feedback from developers who build servers for a private
> network and see how this change will impact the ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand how this change impacts the web ecosystem, we are looking for feedback from developers who build servers for private networks.
```

Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)](https://web.dev/cross-origin-resource-sharing/)
to learn more.

With [CORS-RFC1918](https://wicg.github.io/cors-rfc1918/) the browser will block
loading resources over the private network by default except ones that are
explicitly allowed by the server using CORS and through HTTPS. The website
making requests to those resources will need to send CORS headers and the server
will need to explicitly state that it accepts the cross-origin request by
responding with corresponding CORS headers. (The exact [CORS
headers](https://wicg.github.io/cors-rfc1918/) are still under development.)

Developers of such devices or servers will be requested to do two things:

* Make sure the website making requests to a private network is served over
  HTTPS.
* Set up the server support for CORS-RFC1918 and respond with expected HTTP
  headers.

## What kinds of requests are affected?

Affected requests include:
* Requests from the public network to a private network
* Requests from a private network to a local network
* Requests from the public network to a local network

**A private network**  

> The destination that resolves to the private address space defined in Section 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A destination that resolves to the private address space defined in Section 3
```

of [RFC1918](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1918) in IPv4, an IPv4-mapped IPv6
address where the mapped IPv4 address is itself private, IPv6 subnets excluding

> `::1/128`, `2000::/3` and `ff00::/8`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`::1/128`, `2000::/3` and `ff00::/8`.
```

**A local network**  

> The destination that resolves to the "loopback" space (`127.0.0.0/8`) defined in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A destination that resolves to the "loopback" space (`127.0.0.0/8`) defined in
```

section 3.2.1.3 of [RFC1122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1122) of IPv4, the
"link-local" space (`169.254.0.0/16`) defined in
[RFC3927](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3927) of IPv4, the "Unique Local
Address" prefix (`fc00::/7`) defined in Section 3 of
[RFC4193](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4193) of IPv6, or the "link-local"
prefix (`fe80::/10`) defined in section 2.5.6 of
[RFC4291](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4291) of IPv6.

**A public network**  
All others.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="diagram.png" alt="Relationship between public, private, local networks in CORS-RFC1918">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">

>     Relationship between public, private, local networks in CORS-RFC1918

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Relationship between public, private, local networks in CORS-RFC1918.
```

  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Chrome's plans to enable CORS-RFC1918

Chrome is bringing CORS-RFC1918 in two steps:

> ### 1. Requests to private network resources will be allowed only from HTTPS web pages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Requests to private network resources will be allowed only from HTTPS web pages
```

Chrome 87 adds a flag that mandates public websites making requests to private
network resources to be on HTTPS. You can go to
`chrome://flags#block-insecure-private-network-requests` to enable it. With this
flag turned on, any requests to a private network resource from an HTTP website

> will be blocked. The failed requests will be surfaced in the DevTools console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will be blocked. Failed requests will show up in the DevTools console
```

with the following error code `net::ERR_INSECURE_PRIVATE_NETWORK_REQUEST`.

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot-filled" src="console-error.png" alt="The failed requests will be surfaced in the DevTools console with the error code: `net::ERR_INSECURE_PRIVATE_NETWORK_REQUEST`.">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot-filled" src="console-error.png" alt="Failed requests showing up in the DevTools console with the error code: `net::ERR_INSECURE_PRIVATE_NETWORK_REQUEST`.">
```

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">

>     The failed requests will be surfaced in the DevTools console with the error code: `net::ERR_INSECURE_PRIVATE_NETWORK_REQUEST`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Failed requests showing up in the DevTools console with the error code: `net::ERR_INSECURE_PRIVATE_NETWORK_REQUEST`.
```

  </figcaption>
</figure>

> ### 2. Sending preflight requests with a special header

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Sending preflight requests with a special header
```

In the future, whenever a public website is trying to fetch resources from a
private or a local network, Chrome will send a preflight request before the
actual request.

The request will include an `Access-Control-Request-Private-Network: true`
header in addition to other CORS request headers. Among other things, these
headers identify the origin making the request, allowing for fine-grained access
control. The server can respond with an `Access-Control-Allow-Private-Network:
true` header to explicitly indicate that it grants access to the resource.

{% Aside %}

> These headers are still in flux and may change in the future. No action is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These headers are still under development and may change in the future. No action is
```

currently required.
{% endAside %}

## Feedback wanted

If you are hosting a website within a private network that expects requests from
public networks, Chrome team is interested in your feedback and use cases. There
are two things you can do to help:

> * Go to `chrome://flags#block-insecure-private-network-requests` and turn on the
>   flag and see if your website sends requests to the private network resource as
>   expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go to `chrome://flags#block-insecure-private-network-requests`, turn on the
  flag and see if your website sends requests to the private network resource as
  expected.
```

> * If you encounter any issues or you have any feedback, please file an issue at
>   [crbug.com](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/entry?components=Blink%3ESecurityFeature%3ECORS)
>   with a component `Blink>SecurityFeature>CORS>RFC1918`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you encounter any issues or have feedback, please file an issue at
  [crbug.com](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/entry?components=Blink%3ESecurityFeature%3ECORS)
  with a component `Blink>SecurityFeature>CORS>RFC1918`.
```

### Example feedback

> Our wireless router serves an admin website for the same private network but
> through HTTP. If HTTPS is required for websites that embed the admin website,
> it will be mixed content. Should we enable HTTPS on the admin website in a
> closed network?

This is exactly the type of feedback we are looking for. Please file an issue
with your concrete use case at crbug.com. We'd love to hear from you.

> [Hero image](https://unsplash.com/photos/tN344soypQM) by [Stephen
> Philips](https://unsplash.com/@hostreviews) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Hero image](https://unsplash.com/photos/tN344soypQM) by [Stephen
Philips](https://unsplash.com/@hostreviews) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com).
```

---
title: Feedback wanted: CORS for private networks (RFC1918)
subhead: |
  Mitigate the risks associated with unintentional exposure of devices and servers on a client’s internal network to the web at large.
description: |
  Unintentional exposure of devices and servers on a client’s internal network to the web at large makes them 
  vulnerable to malicious attacks. CORS-RFC1918 is a proposal to block requests from public networks by default 
  on the browser and require internal devices to opt-in to such requests.
authors:
  - agektmr
date: 2020-11-09
hero: hero.jpg

> alt: The hands of a person playing the Chrome dino game on a game console.

Reviewer 2: When I preview the page I see a close-up pic of ethernet ports on what seems to be a router. This seems to be confirmed by the hero image credit at the bottom of the page.

Author: Good catch! Fixed.

Origin Resource Sharing](https://web.dev/cross-origin-resource-sharing/)
to learn more.

With [CORS-RFC1918](https://wicg.github.io/cors-rfc1918/) the browser will block
loading resources over the private network by default except ones that are
explicitly allowed by the server using CORS and through HTTPS. The website
making requests to those resources will need to send CORS headers and the server
will need to explicitly state that it accepts the cross-origin request by
responding with corresponding CORS headers. (The exact [CORS
headers](https://wicg.github.io/cors-rfc1918/) are still under development.)

Developers of such devices or servers will be requested to do two things:

* Make sure the website making requests to a private network is served over
  HTTPS.
* Set up the server support for CORS-RFC1918 and respond with expected HTTP
  headers.

## What kinds of requests are affected?

Affected requests include:
* Requests from the public network to a private network
* Requests from a private network to a local network
* Requests from the public network to a local network

**A private network**  
A destination that resolves to the private address space defined in Section 3

> of [RFC1918](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1918) in IPv4, an IPv4-mapped IPv6
> address where the mapped IPv4 address is itself private, IPv6 subnets excluding
> `::1/128`, `2000::/3` and `ff00::/8`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of [RFC1918](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1918) in IPv4, an IPv4-mapped IPv6
address where the mapped IPv4 address is itself private, or an IPv6 address outside the
`::1/128`, `2000::/3` and `ff00::/8` subnets.
```

  <img src="diagram.png" alt="Relationship between public, private, local networks in CORS-RFC1918">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">
    Relationship between public, private, local networks in CORS-RFC1918.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Chrome's plans to enable CORS-RFC1918

Chrome is bringing CORS-RFC1918 in two steps:

### Step 1: Requests to private network resources will be allowed only from HTTPS web pages

Chrome 87 adds a flag that mandates public websites making requests to private
network resources to be on HTTPS. You can go to
`chrome://flags#block-insecure-private-network-requests` to enable it. With this
flag turned on, any requests to a private network resource from an HTTP website
will be blocked.

Starting from Chrome 88, CORS-RFC1918 errors will be reported as CORS policy
errors in the console.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot-filled" src="console-error.png" alt="CORS-RFC1918 errors will be reported as CORS policy errors in the console.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">
    CORS-RFC1918 errors will be reported as CORS policy errors in the console.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> And in the network tab. Note you can filter by **Blocked Requests** to have a
> spotlighted view
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And in the **Network** panel. You can filter by **Blocked Requests** to have a
spotlighted view:

```

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot-filled" src="cors-error.png" alt="CORS-RFC1918 errors will also be reported as CORS error errors in the Network pane.">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot-filled" src="cors-error.png" alt="CORS-RFC1918 errors will also be reported as CORS error errors in the Network panel.">
```

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">

>     CORS-RFC1918 errors will also be reported as CORS error errors in the Network pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    CORS-RFC1918 errors will also be reported as CORS error errors in the Network panel.
```

  </figcaption>
</figure>

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

In Chrome 87, CORS-RFC1918 errors are only reported in the DevTools Console as
`ERR_INSECURE_PRIVATE_NETWORK_REQUEST` instead.

You can try it out yourself using this [test website](http://cors-rfc1918-testbed.glitch.me).
```

---
title: "Feedback wanted: CORS for private networks (RFC1918)"
subhead: |
  Mitigate the risks associated with unintentional exposure of devices 
  and servers on a client’s internal network to the web at large.
description: |
  Unintentional exposure of devices and servers on a client’s internal network to the web at large makes them 
  vulnerable to malicious attacks. CORS-RFC1918 is a proposal to block requests from public networks by default 
  on the browser and require internal devices to opt-in to such requests.
authors:
  - agektmr
date: 2020-11-09
hero: hero.jpg
alt: A router with ethernet cables connected.
tags:

>   - blog
>   - security
> ---

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - blog
  - security
  - cors
---
```

  - agektmr
date: 2020-11-09
hero: hero.jpg

> alt: A router with eithernet cables connected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
alt: A router with ethernet cables connected.
```
